Create a Quickstart guide Template and Quickstart Section for the Safe Core SDK (#165)
safe-global/safe-docs: learn/safe-core-account-abstraction-sdk/protocol-kit/README.md

# Protocol Kit

> The Protocol Kit uses the [Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/tree/main/packages/safe-core-sdk) to interact with [Safe contracts](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts) using a Typescript interface. This SDK can be used to create Safe accounts, and propose and execute transactions and update the configuration of an existing Safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SDK can be used to create Safe accounts, propose and execute transactions, or update the configuration of an existing Safe.
```

> The Protocol Kit uses the [Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/tree/main/packages/safe-core-sdk) to interact with [Safe contracts](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts) using a Typescript interface. This SDK can be used to create Safe accounts, and propose and execute transactions and update the configuration of an existing Safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Protocol Kit uses the [Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/tree/main/packages/safe-core-sdk) to interact with [Safe contracts](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts) using a Typescript interface. This SDK can be used to create Safe accounts, propose and execute transactions, or update the configuration of an existing Safe.
```

We will be using Goerli for this tutorial, however, you can also get [service URLs for different networks](https://docs.gnosis-safe.io/learn/infrastructure/available-services).

```tsx
import SafeServiceClient from '@safe-global/safe-service-client'

const txServiceUrl = 'https://safe-transaction-goerli.safe.global'
const safeService = new SafeServiceClient({ txServiceUrl, ethAdapter })
```

### **Initialize the Safe Core SDK**

Goerli is a supported network so we don’t need to specify the contract addresses, however, to see how to create a safe on a local or unsupported network, see [Guide: Integrating the Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md#instantiate-an-ethadapter).

Safe Factory is used to create a new Safe. While Safe class represents an instance of a  particular Safe account.

```tsx
import { SafeFactory } from '@safe-global/safe-core-sdk'

> const safeFactory = await SafeFactory.create({ ethAdapterOwner1 })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const safeFactory = await SafeFactory.create({ ethAdapter: ethAdapterOwner1 })
```

Author: This is an outdated version, more recent commits were made here: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-docs/pull/165/commits/2e37808961a0a25f58c5cf252183f3f29d6481f0

```

### Deploy a Safe

```tsx
import { SafeAccountConfig } from '@safe-global/safe-core-sdk'

const safeAccountConfig: SafeAccountConfig = {
  owners: [
    await owner1Signer.getAddress(),
    await owner2Signer.getAddress(),
    await owner3Signer.getAddress()
  ],
  threshold: 2,
  // ... (Optional params)
}

/* This Safe is tied to owner 1 because the factory was initialized with
an adapter that had owner 1 as the signer. */
const safeSdkOwner1 = await safeFactory.deploySafe({ safeAccountConfig })

console.log('Your Safe has been deployed:')
console.log(`https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/${safeSdk.getAddress()}`))
```

> Calling the method `deploySafe`will deploy the desired Safe and return a Safe Core SDK initialized instance ready to be used. Check the [API Reference](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/tree/main/packages/safe-core-sdk#deploysafe) for more details on additional configuration parameters and callbacks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Calling the `deploySafe` method will deploy the desired Safe and return a Safe Core SDK initialized instance ready to be used. Check the [API Reference](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/tree/main/packages/safe-core-sdk#deploysafe) for more details on additional configuration parameters and callbacks.
```

### Send ETH to the Safe

We will send some ETH to this Safe (treasury). Owner 1 will deposit 0.1 Goerli ETH to this Safe from our personal account following the [instructions in Quickstart](https://docs.gnosis-safe.io/learn/quickstart).

```tsx
const treasury = safeSdk.getAddress()

const treasuryAmount = ethers.utils.parseUnits('0.1', 'ether').toHexString()

> const params = [{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const transactionParameters = [{
```

  to: treasury,
  value: treasuryAmount
}]

const tx = await owner1Signer.sendTransaction(transactionParameters)

console.log('Fundraising.')
console.log(`Deposit Transaction: https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/${tx.hash}`))
```

## Making a Transaction from a Safe

Owner 1 will sign and propose a transaction to send 0.05 ETH out of the Safe. Then, owner 2 will add their own proposal and execute the transaction since it meets the 2 of 3 thresholds.

At a high level, making a transaction from the Safe requires the following steps:

### Overview

1. Owner 1 creates a transaction

>     1. Define the amount, destination, and any additional data to include in the transaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Defines the amount, destination, and any additional data to include in the transaction
```

2. Owner 1 proposes a transaction
    1. Performs an off-chain signature of the transaction before proposing

>     2. Submits it to the Safe Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Submits the transaction and signature to the Safe Transaction Service
```

3. Owner 2  gets pending transactions from the Safe service
4. Owner 2  confirms the transaction
    1. Performs an off-chain signature

>     2. Submits to service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Submits the signature to the service
```

5. Anyone can execute the transaction (Owner 1 in this example)

### Create a Transaction

For more details on what to include in a transaction see, [Create a Transaction in the Safe Core SDK Guide](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md#4-create-a-transaction).

```tsx
import { SafeTransactionDataPartial } from '@safe-global/safe-core-sdk-types'

// Any address can be used. In this example we will use vitalik.eth
const destination = '0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045'
const amount = ethers.utils.parseUnits('0.05', 'ether').toString()

const safeTransactionData: SafeTransactionDataPartial = {
  to: destination,
  data: '0x',
  value: amount
}
// Create a Safe transaction with the provided parameters
const safeTransaction = await safeSdkOwner1.createTransaction({ safeTransactionData })

> 

Reviewer 2: This code area needs to be closed:

```suggestion
```

```

### Propose a Transaction

```tsx
// Deterministic hash based on transaction parameters
const safeTxHash = await safeSdkOwner1.getTransactionHash(safeTransaction)

// Sign transaction to verify that the transaction is coming from owner 1
const senderSignature = await safeSdkOwner1.signTransactionHash(safeTxHash)

await safeService.proposeTransaction({

>   safeAddress,

Reviewer 2: `safeAddress` is not defined. You are using `treasury` as the variable that contains the value of the Safe address:
```suggestion
  safeAddress: treasury,
```

  safeTransactionData: safeTransaction.data,
  safeTxHash,

>   senderAddress,

Reviewer 2: `senderAddress` is not defined. It should be the address of the owner proposing the Safe transaction:
```suggestion
  senderAddress: await owner1Signer.getAddress(),
```

  senderSignature: senderSignature.data,

>   origin

Reviewer 2: This parameter is optional and not relevant for this tutorial. It can be removed:

```suggestion
```

})
```

### Confirm the Transaction: First Confirmation

> 

Reviewer 2: A little description of what confirming a transaction is, is missing.

> ### Confirm the Transaction: First Confirmation
> 
> ```tsx
> // transaction: SafeMultisigTransactionResponse
> 
> const hash = transaction.safeTxHash
> let signature = await safeSdkOwner1.signTransactionHash(hash)
> await safeService.confirmTransaction(hash, signature.data)
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: Owner 1 already signed the transaction when proposing it, so the service at this point has the transaction and the signature from owner 1. This step can be removed.
```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks!

### Get Pending Transactions

> Owner 2 needs a different Safe object. However, you don’t need to create it with the safe factory you can create it with the `create` method of the Safe object. The Safe smart contract is already live on the blockchain so you can just pass the treasury address used when you created the Safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When owner 2 is connected to the application, the Safe Core SDK should be initialized again with the existing Safe address the address of the owner 2 instead of the owner 1.
```

Reviewer 2: This paragraph belongs to the `Confirm the Transaction: Second Confirmation` section. Get pending transaction only relies on the Safe Service Client.

Author: Fixed here: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-docs/pull/165/commits/360439d53c465d9e0377a9887df012a6644f9a14

Reviewer 2: For some reason this change was not applied. Maybe the code was moved before applying the change ;)

```tsx

> const ethAdapterOwner2 = new EthersAdapter({

Reviewer 2: This code belongs to the `Confirm the Transaction: Second Confirmation section`.

Author: Why does it belong there? There is no `confirmTransaction` call here?

  ethers,
  signerOrProvider: owner2Signer
})

const safeSdkOwner2 = await Safe.create({
  ethAdapter: ethAdapterOwner2,
  safeAddress: treasury
})

const pendingTxs = await safeService.getPendingTransactions(safeAddress)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

### Confirm the Transaction: Second Confirmation

```tsx
// Assuming that the first pending transaction is the one proposed by owner 1
const transaction = pendingTxs[0]
const safeTxHash = transaction.safeTxHash
const signature = await safeSdkOwner2.signTransactionHash(hash)
const response = await safeService.confirmTransaction(hash, signature.data)
```

### Execute Transaction

> Anyone can execute the transaction once it has the approved number of signers. In this example, owner 1 will execute the transaction and pay the gas fees.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anyone can execute the Safe transaction once it has the required number of signatures. In this example, owner 1 will execute the transaction and pay for the gas fees.
```

```tsx
const safeTransaction = await safeService.getTransaction(safeTxHash)
const executeTxResponse = await safeSdk.executeTransaction(safeTransaction)
const receipt = executeTxResponse.transactionResponse && (await executeTxResponse.transactionResponse.wait())
```

> ### Confirm thatmthe Transaction was Executed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Confirm that the Transaction was Executed
```

    2. Submits the transaction and signature to the Safe Transaction Service
3. Owner 2  gets pending transactions from the Safe service
4. Owner 2  confirms the transaction
    1. Performs an off-chain signature
    2. Submits the signature to the service
5. Anyone can execute the transaction (Owner 1 in this example)

### Create a Transaction

For more details on what to include in a transaction see, [Create a Transaction in the Safe Core SDK Guide](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md#4-create-a-transaction).

```tsx
import { SafeTransactionDataPartial } from '@safe-global/safe-core-sdk-types'

// Any address can be used. In this example we will use vitalik.eth
const destination = '0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045'
const amount = ethers.utils.parseUnits('0.05', 'ether').toString()

const safeTransactionData: SafeTransactionDataPartial = {
  to: destination,
  data: '0x',
  value: amount
}
// Create a Safe transaction with the provided parameters
const safeTransaction = await safeSdkOwner1.createTransaction({ safeTransactionData })
```
### Propose a Transaction

> To send the transaction to the Safe Transaction Service we need to call the method `proposeTransaction` from the Safe Service Client instance.

Author: ```suggestion
To propose a transaction to the Safe Transaction Service we need to call the method `proposeTransaction` from the Safe Service Client instance.
```

For a full list and description of the properties that `proposeTransaction` accepts, see [Propose the transaction to the service](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk/blob/main/guides/integrating-the-safe-core-sdk.md#propose-transaction) in the Safe Core SDK guide.

```tsx
// Deterministic hash based on transaction parameters
const safeTxHash = await safeSdkOwner1.getTransactionHash(safeTransaction)

// Sign transaction to verify that the transaction is coming from owner 1
const senderSignature = await safeSdkOwner1.signTransactionHash(safeTxHash)

await safeService.proposeTransaction({
  safeAddress,
  safeTransactionData: safeTransaction.data,
  safeTxHash,
  senderAddress: await owner1Signer.getAddress(),
  senderSignature: senderSignature.data,
})
```

### Get Pending Transactions

Recall that you created the `safeService` in [Initialize the Safe Service Client](#initialize-the-safe-service-client).

```tsx
const pendingTransactions = await safeService.getPendingTransactions(safeAddress).results
```

### Confirm the Transaction: Second Confirmation

> Owner 2 needs a different Safe object. However, you don’t need to create it with the Safe factory. You can create it with the `create` method of the Safe object. The Safe smart contract is already live on the blockchain so you can just pass the Safe address used when you created the Safe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When owner 2 is connected to the application, the Safe Core SDK should be initialized again with the existing Safe address the address of the owner 2 instead of the owner 1.
```
